[Music]
get ready for something really deep
scientists finally reveal the main
secret of the Mariana Trench the
Curiosity of human nature makes people
look for secrets and mysteries far away
from home like in outer space or on
other planets but did you know there's
another source of the unknown much
closer but still largely unexplored
scientists have mapped only 5% of our
planets seafloor and if you've ever
considered the ocean plain and boring
the video you're about to watch will
blow your mind the Mariana Trench is the
deepest area you can find on earth
although almost everybody has heard the
name
we have shockingly little data about
this dark underwater place in the
western Pacific Ocean and no wonder it's
a monumental task mapping the seafloor
and taking pictures when the water
pressure at the bottom is more than
1,000 times greater than that at the
surface that's a lot of pressure at 1580
miles long that's five times longer than
the Grand Canyon and 43 miles wide the
mariana trench houses the deepest parts
of our planet and the deepest part of
the world's deepest trench is what's
known as the challenger deep are we
getting the point across that this thing
is really deep in 2014 researchers from
the University of New Hampshire
published the results of a seafloor
mapping that showed that the depth of
the Challenger Deep is 36 thousand and
37 feet yikes
that means if we compare that to the
highest point on earth the top of Mount
Everest at 29,000 and 26 feet above sea
level the Challenger Deep is still 7,000
and 11 feet deeper than Everest is tall
if you could descend into the waters of
the trench you would immediately be
crushed to death oh it hurts all right
let's start that one again if you could
descend into the waters of the trench
you would come across active mud
volcanoes underwater vents puffing out
carbon dioxide and liquid sulfur and
marine life that look absolutely
extraterrestrial one of the most unusual
species is a snail fish that lives five
miles under water for comparison that's
higher than most clouds from the Earth's
surface in November
scientists officially documented the
deepest living fish in the world it's a
cute pinkish creature with skin so
translucent that you can see its
internal organs this fish is about the
length of two cigars and seems extremely
fragile but don't let its appearance
fool you
in fact this snail fish can survive
water pressure that would be as heavy as
having 1,600 elephants standing on it
but that's not all there was another
fish species scientists managed to film
at the same depth its body was so
delicate that someone compared it to
thin paper floating through the water
since it hasn't been caught yet the fish
doesn't have an official name scientists
are just calling it the ethereal snail
fish or how about Bob Bob the fish yeah
that's not the only recent discovery to
do with the Mariana Trench in 2016
researchers announce that they found the
source of a mysterious metallic sound
that had been the instigator of numerous
conspiracy theories or so they believe
this noise has an amazingly wide range
of frequency kind of like me it starts
with a deep moan at 38 Hertz oh that
hurts is followed by three other pretty
crazy sounding noises and ends with a
metallic finale that reaches as high as
8,000 Hertz liveability boom this
cryptic cacophony of sorts lasts from
two-and-a-half to three and a half
seconds and sounds so alien that it'll
make your blood run cold
[Music]
despite the enigma surrounding this
phenomenon scientists believe that the
dwarf minke whale is responsible for
this noise this species mating call is
really similar to the Star Wars sounds
recorded in the depths of the Mariana
Trench this explanation seems rational
and logical enough except for one
glaring flaw in the theory if it's a
mating call why is it heard throughout
the year the mating season of dwarf
minke whales is in the winter scientists
themselves can't explain it therefore
leaving grounds for doubt to this day no
one has seen any material proof that
it's definitely the whale making this
so perhaps it's aliens after all so do
you believe that the whales are to blame
for this extraterrestrial noise or do
you think it's beings from outer space
sound off in the comments below and if
you're fond of mysteries and hard to
explain phenomena check out the links at
the top of the screen but we're not done
yet there are so many other unbelievable
creatures lurking in the deep waters of
the Mariana Trench
for example the hollow 3n or deep sea
cucumber is again a translucent creature
that grows much bigger than the ones
living in shallow water but just like
their shallow cousins they shoot their
guts out of their bodies to protect
themselves from predators hey get away
from me take that but don't worry
their organs regenerate really fast
another interesting fact is that other
organisms can live inside the bodies of
huh Lutherans feeling perfectly at home
the deep-sea anglerfish has a really odd
mating ritual the male is incomparably
smaller than the female and lives for
the sole purpose of delivering sperm
afterward the male bites into the female
so hard that he soon becomes a permanent
part of her body just like a parasite
jeez talk about a clingy boyfriend
the predatory tourniquet is a gelatinous
animal that sticks its body to the side
of an underwater Canyon or to the
seafloor looking at them you'd probably
think there's some sort of jellyfish but
they're actually more closely related to
humans if we consider their body
structure these creatures lie in ambush
until some poor small fish gets itself
stuck in their enormous hooded mouth now
the barreleye fish looks like something
straight out of a sci-fi movie it's hard
to imagine that nature could create a
fish with a transparent head and barrel
shaped eyes sitting inside these eyes
are extremely sensitive and can easily
notice prey in the darkness of the deep
water seriously this is the stuff of
nightmares all these creatures look like
horror film monsters but perhaps it's
just the nature of their environment the
cute ones wouldn't survive in the harsh
conditions of the Mariana Trench at its
floor there are hydrothermal vents
spewing out extremely acidic fluids the
temperature around them can be higher
than 500 degrees Fahrenheit while the
typical sea floor temperature is never
higher than 39 degrees Fahrenheit one
more unique phenomenon you can find only
in the Mariana Trench
is the champagne vent despite its cool
name it's got nothing to do with the
stuff you drink on New Year's the
champagne vent is the only underwater
place known to people where you will see
liquid carbon dioxide
no wonder local inhabitants have to
adapt if they want to survive just like
the 4-inch amoeba standard-issue amoebas
are microscopic single-celled organisms
so four inches is actually ginormous for
these things while such elements as
uranium lead and Mercury would easily
kill people and most animals these
deep-sea creatures aren't the least bit
phase
by them scientists have spotted these
amoebas deeper than six and a half miles
and who knows maybe that's not the limit
whatever we know about the Mariana
Trench nowadays is still a small
fraction of what there is to learn maybe
someday the deepest place on the planet
will reveal all its secrets to mankind
but that day is yet to come
so which fact have you found the most
shocking tell us in the comment section
below if you found this video
fascinating don't forget to show it to
us
with a thumbs up if you don't want to
miss out on any new curious and
informative videos subscribe to our
Channel and join us on the bright side
of life